AMP-78205 - Update React Native migration doc (#819)
Amplitude-Developer-Docs/amplitude-dev-center: docs/data/sdks/typescript-react-native/migration.md

description: Use this guide to easily migrate from Amplitude's maintenance React Native SDK (@amplitude/react-native) to the new SDK (@amplitude/analytics-react-native).
---

!!! warning
    The Maintenance React Native SDK stores device ID, user ID, etc., in SQLite. However, there is no migration logic available (at this time), so this data won't be automatically migrated when upgrading to the new React Native SDK. Consequently, for example, device ID may be regenerated when using the new SDK.

    We will release a migration plugin soon.

> Amplitude new React Native SDK (`@amplitude/analytics-react-native`) features a plugin architecture, built-in type definition and broader platform support. New React Native SDK isn't backwards compatible with maintenance React Native SDK `@amplitude/react-native`. 

Reviewer: nit: I think we should stick to "latest" for consistency
```suggestion
Amplitude's latest React Native SDK (`@amplitude/analytics-react-native`) features a plugin architecture, built-in type definition and broader platform support. New React Native SDK isn't backwards compatible with maintenance React Native SDK `@amplitude/react-native`. 
```

Author: Also updated terminology [here](https://pr-819.d19s7xzcva2mw3.amplifyapp.com/data/sdks/typescript-react-native/migration/#terminology).

To migrate to `@amplitude/analytics-react-native`, update your dependencies and instrumentation.

## Terminology

* `@amplitude/react-native`: Maintenance React Native SDK
* `@amplitude/analytics-react-native`: New React Native SDK

## Dependency

Uninstall `@amplitude/react-native` by either `yarn remove @amplitude/react-native` or deleting your dependency list in package.json

```diff
{
    "dependencies": {

> -    "@amplitude/react-native": "^2"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-    "@amplitude/react-native": "*"
+    "@amplitude/analytics-react-native": "^1"
```

Author: I added a link to new RN installation section in case of major version release

Reviewer: Thanks, I saw the link but still think it would be good to show the required dependency change here as well. Ideally the customer can follow this doc top to bottom without having to leave the page for supplementary info.

    }
}
```

Follow [the installation section](../#installation) to add new React Native SDK dependencies.

## Instrumentation

New React Native SDK offers an API to instrument events. To migrate to it, you need to update a few calls. The following sections detail which calls have changed.

### Initialization

`getInstance()` in the maintenance SDK only accepts API key and has been removed. To initialize the SDK, call `init()`, with the user ID and configuration parameters.

> ```diff

Reviewer: Thanks @Mercy811. I think the diffs views really help.

1. Device ID of in the configuration on initialization
2. "deviceId" value from URL param, for example http://example.com/?deviceId=123456789. If it runs on Web.
3. Device ID in cookie storage.
4. A randomly generated 36-character UUID

#### Advertising IDs

Maintenance React Native SDK supports setting an advertising ID as device ID by `setAdvertisingIdForDeviceId()` or `setAppSetIdForDeviceId()`. The new React Native SDK tracks ADID  by default as `config.trackingOptions.adid` defaults to `true`. However, the new React Native SDK doesn't support App Set ID, IDFA, or IDFV.

### COPPA

You can enable COPPA control by `enableCoppaControl()` in maintenance React Native SDK. The new React Native SDK doesn't support that API but you can still enable COPPA:

* For iOS, IDFA and IDFV aren't tracked. For Android, you can turn off ADID by setting `config.trackingOptions.adid` to `false`
* You can use an [enrichment Plugin](../#enrichment-type-plugin) to delete city in the payload.
* You can turn off IP address tracking by setting `config.trackingOptions.ipAddress` to `false`
* Location (latitude and longitude) isn't tracked

> ### Session events

Reviewer: I noticed while reviewing the TS RN SDK that session's are not tracked the same as they used to be in maintenance RN.

* RN legacy - used "mobile style" tracking on iOS and Android
* RN TS - uses "web" style session tracking on all platforms

I am going to put together a doc about improving session tracking in the TS SDK, but for now can you please call out this difference in the docs.

Author: Nice catch! I updated this section to https://pr-819.d19s7xzcva2mw3.amplifyapp.com/data/sdks/typescript-react-native/migration/#session-management and update the `setMinTimeBetweenSessionsMillis` in configuration to 

"similar to config.sessionTimeout, but they are not completely the same. Learn more about session management"

Reviewer: Hi @Mercy811 I was wrong on this. Andrey pointed out that we are correctly tracking foreground/background in TS RN. See here: https://github.com/amplitude/Amplitude-TypeScript/pull/263

Author: Glad to hear that, then we don't need to fix it. Reverted previous change.

description: Use this guide to easily migrate from Amplitude's maintenance React Native SDK (@amplitude/react-native) to the new SDK (@amplitude/analytics-react-native).
---

> Amplitude New React Native SDK (`@amplitude/analytics-react-native`) features a plugin architecture, built-in type definition and broader platform support. New React Native SDK isn't backwards compatible with maintenance React Native SDK `@amplitude/react-native`. 

Reviewer 2: Can we also mention that the unsent events or the identity-related value will be dropped and the effect?

Author: >  unsent events or the identity-related value will be dropped

Could you elaborate on this?

Reviewer 2: previously we stored the deice id, user id, might be also session id and others in sqlite db. Since we don't have any migration logic, that stuff won't be migrated. That means, the deviceId might be regenerated while using new rn sdk.

Author: Add an admonition at the top of the page:

The Maintenance React Native SDK stores device ID, user ID, etc., in SQLite. However, there is no migration logic available, so this data won't be automatically migrated when upgrading to the new React Native SDK. Consequently, for example, device ID may be regenerated when using the new SDK.

* `@amplitude/analytics-react-native`: New React Native SDK

## Dependency

Uninstall `@amplitude/react-native` by either `yarn remove @amplitude/react-native` or deleting your dependency list in package.json

=== "@amplitude/react-native"

    ```json
    {
      "dependencies": {
        "@amplitude/react-native": "^2"
      }
    }
    ```

Follow [the installation section](../#installation) to add new React Native SDK dependencies.

## Instrumentation

New React Native SDK offers an API to instrument events. To migrate to it, you need to update a few calls. The following sections detail which calls have changed.

### Initialization

`getInstance()` in the maintenance SDK only accepts API key and has been removed. To initialize the SDK, call `init()`, with the user ID and configuration parameters.

=== "@amplitude/react-native"

    ```typescript
    import { Amplitude } from '@amplitude/react-native';

    Amplitude.getInstance().init(API_KEY)
    ```

=== "@amplitude/analytics-react-native"

    ```typescript
    import { init } from '@amplitude/analytics-react-native';

    init(API_KEY, OPTIONAL_USER_ID, config);
    ```

### Configuration

> Maintenance React Native SDK runs on top of the maintenance Android SDK and maintenance iOS SDK and uses settable config options. However new React Native SDK instance has an configuration object in it so that we can set configurations directly on initialization via the instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, the new React Native SDK instance includes a configuration object, allowing us to set configurations directly upon initialization via the instance.
```

|@amplitude/react-native|@amplitude/analytics-react-native|
|-|-|
| `enableCoppaControl()` | NOT SUPPORTED |
| `disableCoppaControl()` | NOT SUPPORTED |

> | `setAdvertisingIdForDeviceId()` | NOT SUPPORTED |

Reviewer 2: For `setAdvertisingIdForDeviceId` and `setAppSetIdForDeviceId`, I think we are still able to support them. but there are no method calls like that. I'm not super familiar with how rn works, but I found we are able to find appSetId and AdvertisingId at [there](https://github.com/amplitude/Amplitude-TypeScript/blob/main/packages/analytics-react-native/android/src/main/java/com/amplitude/reactnative/AndroidContextProvider.kt#L53-L65). So I feel if you enable to fetch those ids, you can use the plugin to use those ids as deviceId. Please double check in the rn code.

More reference: https://amplitude.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/GOV/pages/1862926669/2022-08-16+ReactNative-TS+SDK+Sync+on+the+native+code+imports+and+recent+RN-TS+issues

Author: I updated `setAdvertisingIdForDeviceId()` to be 

"No configuration to set ADID as device ID. But ADID is still tracked by default as `config.trackingOptions.adid` defaults to `true`. To learn more about how device ID is initialized [here](./#device-id). "

However, I don't think we track app set id as
- app set id is not in HTTP V2 API 
- I searched the codebase and found no `appSetId` elsewhere
- for both latest and legacy Android SDK, we only support `useAppSetIdForDeviceId` but not track app set id as a user property

| `setAppSetIdForDeviceId()` | NOT SUPPORTED |
| `setOptOut()` | both `setOptOut()` and `config.optOut` are supported |
| `trackingSessionEvents()` | `config.trackingSessionEvents` |
| `setUseDynamicConfig()` | NOT SUPPORTED |
| `setMinTimeBetweenSessionsMillis()`| similar to `config.sessionTimeout`, but they are not completely the same. Learn more about [session management](./#session-management)|
| `setServerZone()` | `config.serverZone` |
| `setServerUrl()` | `config.serverUrl` |
| `setEventUploadMaxBatchSize()` | `config.flushQueueSize` |
| `setEventUploadPeriodMillis()` | `config.flushIntervalMillis` |
| `setEventUploadThreshold()` | `config.flushQueueSize` |
| `enableLogging()`| Logging is enabled and cannot be turned off. However, you can set `config.logLevel` and customize `config.loggerProvider` |
| `setLogLevel()`| `config.logLevel` |

> | `addLogCallback()` | You can add callback by customizing `config.loggerProvider` |

Reviewer 2: `addLogCallback` is designed to log error on android native side. I feel loggerProvider might not be able to make support it in the same way.

Author: Change it to "It's not fully supported but you can customize a logger by setting `config.loggerProvider`."

description: Use this guide to easily migrate from Amplitude's maintenance React Native SDK (@amplitude/react-native) to the new SDK (@amplitude/analytics-react-native).
---

!!! warning

>     The Maintenance React Native SDK stores device ID, user ID, etc., in SQLite. However, there is no migration logic available, so this data won't be automatically migrated when upgrading to the new React Native SDK. Consequently, for example, device ID may be regenerated when using the new SDK.

Reviewer: We will be working on a migration plugin soon.

Amplitude new React Native SDK (`@amplitude/analytics-react-native`) features a plugin architecture, built-in type definition and broader platform support. New React Native SDK isn't backwards compatible with maintenance React Native SDK `@amplitude/react-native`. 

To migrate to `@amplitude/analytics-react-native`, update your dependencies and instrumentation.

## Terminology

* `@amplitude/react-native`: Maintenance React Native SDK
* `@amplitude/analytics-react-native`: New React Native SDK

## Dependency

Uninstall `@amplitude/react-native` by either `yarn remove @amplitude/react-native` or deleting your dependency list in package.json

=== "@amplitude/react-native"

    ```json
    {
      "dependencies": {

>         "@amplitude/react-native": "^2"

Author: It looks more appealing and has more contrast. Changed

      }
    }
    ```

Follow [the installation section](../#installation) to add new React Native SDK dependencies.

## Instrumentation

New React Native SDK offers an API to instrument events. To migrate to it, you need to update a few calls. The following sections detail which calls have changed.

### Initialization

`getInstance()` in the maintenance SDK only accepts API key and has been removed. To initialize the SDK, call `init()`, with the user ID and configuration parameters.

=== "@amplitude/react-native"

    ```typescript
    import { Amplitude } from '@amplitude/react-native';

    Amplitude.getInstance().init(API_KEY)
    ```

=== "@amplitude/analytics-react-native"

    ```typescript
    import { init } from '@amplitude/analytics-react-native';

    init(API_KEY, OPTIONAL_USER_ID, config);
    ```

### Configuration

> However, the new React Native SDK instance includes a configuration object, allowing us to set configurations directly upon initialization via the instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new React Native SDK instance accepts a configuration object during upon initialization that contains similar settings to the maintenance SDK.
```

|@amplitude/react-native|@amplitude/analytics-react-native|
|-|-|

> | `enableCoppaControl()` | NOT SUPPORTED |

Author: Also called out that we will track those in a newly released version soon.

| `setUseDynamicConfig()` | NOT SUPPORTED |
| `setMinTimeBetweenSessionsMillis()`| similar to `config.sessionTimeout`, but they are not completely the same. Learn more about [session management](./#session-management)|
| `setServerZone()` | `config.serverZone` |
| `setServerUrl()` | `config.serverUrl` |
| `setEventUploadMaxBatchSize()` | `config.flushQueueSize` |
| `setEventUploadPeriodMillis()` | `config.flushIntervalMillis` |
| `setEventUploadThreshold()` | `config.flushQueueSize` |
| `enableLogging()`| Logging is enabled and cannot be turned off. However, you can set `config.logLevel` and customize `config.loggerProvider` |
| `setLogLevel()`| `config.logLevel` |
| `addLogCallback()` | It's not fully supported but you can customize a logger by setting `config.loggerProvider`. |

### Tracking events

#### `logEvent()`

The `logEvent()` API maps to `track()`.

=== "@amplitude/react-native"

    ```typescript
    import { Amplitude } from '@amplitude/react-native';
    
    Amplitude.getInstance().logEvent('Button Clicked', {buttonColor: 'primary'});
    ```

=== "@amplitude/analytics-react-native"

    ```typescript
    import { track } from '@amplitude/analytics-react-native';

>     track('Button Clicked', {buttonColor: 'primary'});

Reviewer: nit: we should be consistent in the spacing here compared to `import { track }`.
```suggestion
    track('Button Clicked', { buttonColor: 'primary' });
```

        .setEventProperties({
            key: 'value',
        })

    revenue(event);
    ```
You can also `setRevenue(6)` instead of `setPrice(3)` and `setQuantity(2)`.

## Advanced topics

### Identity

#### Device ID

As the maintenance React Native SDK is a wrapper of the maintenance iOS, maintenance Android SDK and maintenance Browser SDK and provides mappings from React Native to native SDK functions, device ID generation follows the native SDK of each platform. Learn more about device ID lifecycle of [maintenance iOS SDK](../../ios/#device-id-lifecycle) and [maintenance Android SDK](../../android/#device-id-lifecycle). You can also call `setAdvertisingIdForDeviceId()` or `setAppSetIdForDeviceId()` to set ADID or App Set ID as device ID.

The new React Native SDK initializes the device ID in the following order, with the device ID being set to the first valid value encountered:

1. Device ID of in the configuration on initialization
2. "deviceId" value from URL param, for example http://example.com/?deviceId=123456789. If it runs on Web.
3. Device ID in cookie storage.
4. A randomly generated 36-character UUID

#### Advertising IDs

> Maintenance React Native SDK supports setting an advertising ID as device ID by `setAdvertisingIdForDeviceId()` or `setAppSetIdForDeviceId()`. The new React Native SDK tracks ADID  by default as `config.trackingOptions.adid` defaults to `true`. However, the new React Native SDK doesn't support App Set ID, IDFA, or IDFV.

Reviewer: > App Set ID, IDFA, or IDFV

As mentioned this is WIP. Should be in prod early next week

Reviewer: We will not directly support retrieving IDFA, but customers will be still able to configure the trackingoption, and set the `event.idfa` themselves if they want that functionality.

Author: Add an admonition like in COPPA section. Will change it once https://github.com/amplitude/Amplitude-TypeScript/pull/456 releases

### COPPA

You can enable COPPA control by `enableCoppaControl()` in maintenance React Native SDK. The new React Native SDK doesn't support that API but you can still enable COPPA:

* For iOS, IDFA and IDFV aren't tracked. For Android, you can turn off ADID by setting `config.trackingOptions.adid` to `false`
* You can use an [enrichment Plugin](../#enrichment-type-plugin) to delete city in the payload.
* You can turn off IP address tracking by setting `config.trackingOptions.ipAddress` to `false`
* Location (latitude and longitude) isn't tracked

### Session management

Amplitude [defines a session](https://help.amplitude.com/hc/en-us/articles/115002323627-Track-sessions-in-Amplitude#how-amplitude-defines-sessions) slightly differently between mobile and web applications.

The maintenance React Native SDK follows mobile-style session tracking definition based on foreground and background switching. You can set session expiration time by `setMinTimeBetweenSessionsMillis()`. It also supports automatically log start and end session events by calling `trackingSessionEvents(true)`.

> The new React Native SDK follows web-style session tracking definition based on the last event. You can customize the timeout window by `config.sessionTimeout`. It doesn't support automatic start and end session event tracking, but session is still managed by the SDK. Events that are logged within the same session have the same session ID and Amplitude still groups events together by session.

Reviewer: Sorry, I was wrong about this. https://github.com/Amplitude-Developer-Docs/amplitude-dev-center/pull/819#discussion_r1239015014

Author: No worries. I was convicted and didn't know we have two types of session definitions until then. Reverted
